
SOCIAL DREAMING
OF THE FRIN

Note: much of the information for this piece
comes from an Oneirological Survey on the Frinthian Plane:
published by Mills College Press, and from conversations
with Frinthian scholars and friends.

ON THE FRINTHIAN PLANE, dreams are not private property. A
troubled Frin has no need to lie on a couch recounting dreams
to a psychoanalyst, for the doctor already knows what the pa-
tient dreamed last night, because the doctor dreamed it too; 
and the patient also dreamed what the doctor dreamed; and so
did everyone else in the neighborhood.

To escape from the dreams of others or to have a private, a
secret dream, the Frin must go out alone into the wilderness,
And even in the wilderness, their sleep may be invaded by the
strange dream visions of lions, antelope, bears, or mice.

While awake, and during much of their sieep, the Frm are
as: dream—deaf as we are. Only sleepers who are in or approach-
ing REM sleep can participate in the dreams of others also in
REM sleep.

REM is an acronym for “rapid eye movement,” a visible ac»
companiment of this stage of sleep; its signal in the brain is a
characteristic type of electroencephalic wave. Most of our re—
memberable dreams occur during REM sleep.

Frinthian REM sleep and that of people on our plane yield
very similar EEG traces, though there are some signiﬁcant
differences, in which may lie the key to the Frinthian ability to
share dreams. 

To share, the dreamers must be fairly close to one another.
The carrying power of the average Frinthian dream is about
that of the average human voice. A dream can be received easily
within a hundred-meter radius, and bits and fragments of it
may carry a good deal farther. A strong dream in a solitary place
may well carry for two kilometers or even farther.

In a lonely farmhouse a Frin’s dreams mingle only with
those of the rest of the family, along with echoes, whiffs, and
glimpses of what the cattle in the barn and the dog dozing on
the doorstop hear, smell, and see in their sleep.

In a village or town, with people asleep in all the houses
around, the Frin spend at least part of every night in a shifting
phantasmagoria of their own and other people’s dreams which
I ﬁnd hard to imagine.

I asked an acquaintance in a small town to tell me any
dreams she could recall from the past night. At ﬁrst she de—
murred, saying that they’d all been nonsense, and only “strong”
dreams ought to be thought about and talked overt She was ev—
idently reluctant to tell me, an outsider7 things that had been

going on in her neighbors’ heads. I managed at last to convince
her that my interest was genuine and not voyeuristic. She
thought a while and said, “Well, there was a woman— it was me
in the dream, or sort of me, but I think it was the mayor‘s wife’s
dream, actually, they live at the corner —this woman, anyhow
and she was trying to Find a baby that she’d had last year. She
had put the baby into a dresser drawer and forgotten all about
it, and now I was, she was, feeling worried about it— Had it
had anything to eat? Since last year? Oh my word how stupid
we are in dreams! And then, oh yes, then there was an awful
argument between a naked man and a dwarf, they were in an
empty cistern. That may have been my own dream at least to
start with. Because I know that cistern. It was on my grand—
father’s farm where I used to stay when I was a child. But they
both turned into lizards, I think. And then— oh yes!” She
laughed. “I was being squashed by a pair of giant breasts, huge
ones, with pointy nipples. I think that was the teenage boy next
door, because I was terriﬁed but kind of ecstatic, too. And what
else was there? Oh, a mouse, it looked so delicious, and it
didn‘t know I was there, and I was just about to pounce, but
then there was a horrible thing, a nightmare— a face without
anv eyes—- and huge, hairy hands groping at me— and then I
heard the three-year—olel next door screaming, because I woke
up too. That poor child has so many nightmares, she drives us
all crazy. Oh, I don’t really like thinking about that one. I’m glad
we forget most dreams. Wouldnlt it be awful if we had to re-
member them all!"

Dreaming is a cyclical, not a continuous activity, and so in
small communities there are hours when one’s sleep theaterm if
one may call it so, is dark. REM sleep among settled, local
groups of Frin tends to synchronise. As the cycles peak, about
ﬁve times a night, several or many dreams may be going on si—
multaneously in eveiybody‘s head, intermingling and inﬂuenc-
ing one another with their mad, inarguable logic, so that (as my
friend in the village described it) the baby turns up in the cis—
tern and the mouse hides between the breasts, while the eyeless
monster disappears in the dust kicked up by a pig trotting past
through a new dream, perhaps a dog‘s, since the pig is rather
dimly seen but is smelled with great particularity. But after such
episodes comes a period when everyone can sleep in peace,
without anything exciting happening at all.

In Frinthian Cities, where one may be within dream range
of hundreds of people every night, the layering and overlap of
insubstantial imagery is, I’m told, so continual and so confusing
that the dreams cancel out, like brushfuls ofcolors slapped one
over the other without design; even one’s own dream blurs at
once into the meaningless commotion, as if projected on a
screen where a hundred ﬁlms are already being shown, their
soundtracks all running together. Only occasionally does a ges—
ture, a voice, ring clear for a momentm or a particularly vivid wet
dream or ghastly nightmare cause all the sleepers in a neigh—
borhood to sigh, ejaculate, shudder, or wake up with a gasp.

Frin whose dreams are mostly troubling or disagreeable say
they like living in the city for the very reason that their dreams
are all but lost in the “stew,” as they call it. But others are upset
by the constant oneiric noise and dislike spending even a few
nights in a metropolis. “I hate to dream strangers’ dreams!” my
village informant told me. “Ugh! When I come back from stay-
ing in the city, I wish I could wash out the inside of my head!"

EVEN ON OUR PLANE, young children often have trouble under—
standing that the experiences they had just before they woke up
aren’t “real.” it must be far more bewildering for Frinthian chil-
dren, into whose innocent sleep enter the sensations and pre-
occupations of adults— accidents relived, giiefs renewed, rapes
reenacted, wrathful conversations held with people ﬁfty years
in the grave.

But adult Frin are ready to answer children’s questions
about the shared dreams and to discuss them, defining them
always as dream, though not as unreal. There is no word cor—
responding to “unreal” in Frinthian; the nearest is “bodiless.”
So the children learn to live with adults’ incomprehensible mem-
ories, unmentionable acts, and inexplicable emotions, much
as do children who grow up on our plane amid the terrible
incoherence of civil war or in times of plague and famine; or,
indeed, children anywhere, at any time. Children learn what
is real and what isn’t, what to notice and what to ignore, as a
survival tactic. lt is hard for an outsider to judge, but my im-
pression of Frinthian children is that they mature early, psycho-
logically. By the age of seven or eight they are treated by adults
as equals.

As for the animals, no one knows what they make of the
human dreams they evidently participate in. The domestic
beasts of the an seemed to me to be remarkably pleasant,
trustful, and intelligent. They are generally well looked after.
The fact that the Frin share their dreams with their animals
might explain why they use animals to haul and plow and for
milk and wool, but not as meat.

The Frin say that animals are more sensitive dream re—
ceivers than human beings and can receive dreams even from
people from other planes. Frinthian farmers have assured me
that their cattle and swine are deeply disturbed by the visits of
people From carnivorous planes. When I stayed at a farm in
Enya Valley the chicken house was in an uproar half the night.
I thought it was a fox, but my hosts said it was me.

People who have mingled their dreams all their lives say
they are often uncertain where a dream began, whether it was
originally theirs or somebody else‘s; but within a family or vil—
lage the author ofa particularly erotic or ridiculous dream may
be all too easily identiﬁed People who know one another well
can recognise the source dreamer from the tone or events of
the dream, from its style. Still, it has become their own as they
dream it. Each dream may be shaped differently in each mind.
And, as with us, the personality of the dreamer, the oneiric I, is
often tenuous, strangely disguised, or unpredictably different
from the daylight person. Very puzzling dreams or those with
powerful emotional affect may be discussed on and off all day
by the community7 without the origin of the dream ever being
mentioned.

But most dreams, as with us, are forgotten at waking.
Dreams elude their dreamers on every planet

It might seem to us that the Frin have very little psychic pri-
vacy; but they are protected by this common amnesia, as well as
by doubt as to any particular dream’s origin and by the obscu-
rity of dream itself. Their dreams are truly common property.
The sight of a red-and—black bird peeking at the ear of a
bearded human head lying on a plate on a marble table and the
rush of almost gleeful horror that accompanied it—did that
come from Aunt Unia’s sleep, or Uncle Tu’s, or Grandfather’s,
Of the cook's, or the girl next door’s? A Child might ask,
“Auntie, did you dream that head?” The stock answer is “we
all did.” Which is, of course, the truth. ’

Frinthian families and small communities are close—knit
and generally harmonious, though quarrels and feuds occur.
The research group From Mills College that traveled to the
Frinthian plane to record and study oneiric brain-wave syn-
chrony agreed that like the synchronisation of menstrual and
other cycles within groups on our plane, the communal dream—
ing of the Frin may serve to establish and strengthen the social
bond. They did not speculate as to its psychological or moral
effects.

From time to time a Frin is born with unusual powers of
projecting and receiving dreams— never one without the other.
The Frin call such a dreamer whose signal is unusually clear
and powerful a strong mind. That strong—minded dreamers can
receive dreams from non-Frinthian humans is a proven fact.
Some of them apparently can share dreams with ﬁsh, with in-
sects, even with trees, A legendary strong mind named Du Ir
claimed that he “dreamed with the mountains and the rivers.”
but his boast is generally regarded as poetry. 

Strong minds are recognised even before birth, when the
mother begins to dream that she lives in a warmt amber-colored
palace without directions or gravity, hill of shadows and com-
plex rhythms and musical vibrations, and shaken often by slow
peaceful earthquakes— a dream the whole community enjoys,
though late in the pregnancy it may be accompanied by a sense
of pressure, of urgency, that rouses claustrophobia in some.

As the strong-minded child grows, its dreams reach two or
three times farther than those of ordinary people, and tend to
override or co-opt local dreams going on at the same time. The
nightmares and inchoate, passionate deliria of a strong—minded
child who is sick, abused: or unhappy can disturb everyone in
the neighborhood, even in the next village. Such children,
therefore, are treated with care; every effort is made to make
their life one of good cheer and disciplined serenity. If the fam-
ily is incompetent or uncaring, the village or town may inter-
vene, the whole community earnestly seeking to ensure the
child peaceful days and nights of pleasant dreams.

“World-strong minds” are legendary ﬁgures, whose dreams
supposedly came to everyone in the world» and who therefore
also dreamed the dreams of everyone in the world Such men
and women are revered as holy people, ideals and models for
the strong dreamers of today. The moral pressure on strong-
minded people is in fact intense, and so must be the psychic
pressure. None of them lives in a city: they would go mad,
dreaming a whole city’s dreams. Mostly they gather in small
communities where they live very quietly, widely dispersed
from one another at night, practicing the art of “dreaming
well," which mostly means dreaming harmlessly, But some of
them become guides, philosophers, visionary leaders.

There are still many tribal societies on the Frinthian plane,
and the Mills researchers visited several. They reported that
among these peoples, strong minds are regarded as seers or
shamans, with the usual perquisites and penalties of such emi—
nence. If during a famine the tribe’s strong mind dreams of trav-
eling clear down the river and Feasting by the sea, the whole
tribe may share the vision of the journey and the feast so
vividly, with such conviction, that they decide to pack up and
start downriver. If they ﬁnd food along the way: or shellﬁsh and
edible seaweeds on the beach? their strong mind gets rewarded
with the choice bits; but if they ﬁnd nothing or run into trouble
with other tribes, the seer? now called “the twisted mind 7’ may
be beaten or driven out. 

The elders told the researchers that tribal councils usually
follow the guidance of dream only iF other indications favor it.
The strong minds themselves urge caution, A seer among the
Eastern Zhud—Byu told the researchers, “This is what I say to
my people: Some dreams tell us what we wish to believe. some
dreams tell us what we fear. Some dreams are of what we know
though we may not know we know it. The rarest dream is the
dream that tells us what we have not known.“

Frinthia has been open to other planes for over a century
but the rural scenery and quiet lifestyle have brought no great
influx of visitors. Many tourists avoid the plane under the
impression that the trio are a race of “mindsuckers” and
“psychovoyeurs.”

Most Frin are still farmers, villagers, or town dwellers, but
the cities and their material technologies are growing fast.
Though technologies and techniques can be imported only
with the permission of the All—Frin government, requests for
such permission by Frinthian companies and individuals have
become increasingly frequent. Many Frin welcome this growth
of urbanism, and materialism, justifying it as the result of the
interpretation of dreams received by their strong minds from
visitors rom other planes. “People came here with strange
dreams,” says the historian Tubar of Kaps: himself a strong
mind. “Our strongest minds joined in them, and joined us with
them. So we all began to see things we had never dreamed
of. Vast gatherings of people, cybernets, ice cream,- much com—
merce, many pleasant belongings and useful artifacts. Shall
these remain only dreams?” we said. ‘Shall we not bring these
things into wakeful being?“ So we have done that.”

Other thinkers take a more dubious attitude towards alien
hypnogogia. What troubles them most is that the dreaming is
not reciprocal. For though a strong mind can share the dreams
of an alien visitor and “broadcast” them to other Frin, nobody
from another plane has been capable of sharing the dreams of
the Frin. We cannot enter their nightly festival of fantasies. We
are not on their wavelength.

The investigators from Mills hoped to be able to reveal the
mechanism by which communal dreaming is effected, but they
failed as Frinthian scientists have also failed; so far. “Telepa-
thy?" much hyped in the literature of the interplanary travel
agents: is a label, not an explanation. Researchers have estab—
lished that the genetic programming of all Frinthian mammals
includes the capacity for dream sharing7 but its operation:
though clearly linked to the brain-wave synchrony of sleepers,
remains obscure. Visiting foreigners do not synchronise; they
do not participate in that nightly ghost chorus of electric im-
pulses dancing to the same heat. But unwittingly, unwillingly—
like a deaf child shouting— they send out their own dreams to
the strong minds asleep nearby. And to many of the Frin, this
seems not so much a sharing as a pollution or infection.

"The purpose of our dreams," says the philosopher Sorr-
dja of Farfrit, a strong dreamer of the ancient Deyu Retreat, “is
to enlarge our souls by letting us imagine all that can be imag-
ined: to release us from the tyranny and bigotry of" the individ—
ual self by letting us feel the fears, desires, and delights of every
mind in every living body near us.” The duty of the strong-
minded person, she holds, is to strengthen dreams, to focus
them -not with 21 view to practical results or new inventions
but as a means of understanding the world through a myriad
of experiences and sentiences (not only human). The dreams
of the greatest dreamers may offer to those who share them a
glimpse of an order underlying all the Chaotic stimuli, re-
sponses, acts, words, intentions1 and imaginings of daily and
nightly existence,

“In the day we are apart,” she says. “In the night we are
together. We should follow our own dreams, not those of
strangers who cannot join us in the dark. With such people we
can talk; we can learn from them and teach them. We should do
so, for that is the way of the daylight. But the way of the night is
different. We go together them apart From them. The dream we
dream is our road through the night. They know our day, but
not our night, nor the ways we go there. Only we can ﬁnd our
own way, showing one another, following the lantern of the
strong mind, following our dreams in darkness.”

The resemblance of Sorrdja’s phrase “road through the
night” to Freud‘s “royal road to the unconscious” is interesting
but, I believe, superﬁcial visitors From my plane have dis-
cussed psychological theory with the Frin, but neither Freud‘s
nor Jung’s views of dream are of much interest to them. The
Frinthian “royal road” is trodden not by one secret soul but by
a multitude. Repressed feelings, however distorted? disguised,
and symbolic, are the common property of everybody in one‘s
household and neighborhood. The Frinthian unconscious,
collective or individual=,is not a dark wellspring buried deep
under years of evasions and denials, but a kind of great moonlit
lake to whose shores everybody comes to swim together naked
every night,

And so the interpretation of dreams is not, among the Frin,
a means of self—revelation, of private psychic inquiry and re-
adjustment. It is not even species-speciﬁc, since animals share
the dreams, though only the Frin can talk about them.

For them, dream is a communion of all the sentient crea—
tures in the world. It puts the notion of self deeply into ques—
tion. I can imagine only that for them to fall asleep is to abandon
the self utterly, to enter or reenter the limitless community of
being, almost as death is for us.

 

